\chapter{The ATLAS Detector} \label{chap:atlas}

Given the immense energies availalbe at the LHC, and the veritable zoo of
paricles we are trying to detect, we require a general-purpose experiment in
order to fully exploit the full range of physics opportunities provided.  Two
international collaborations rose to this challenge, the CMS (Compact Muon
Solenoid) and ATLAS (A Torroidal LHC ApparatuS) experiments.  While both have
similar physics goals and each of them strengths and weaknesses, this
dissertation will focus on the ATLAS experiment and the intricacies of its three
main sub-detectors and two massive magnet systems depicted in
\cref{fig:atlas_cutaway}.

\begin{figure}[!htbp]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{figures/atlas/atlas_cutaway.pdf}
    \caption{ \cite{PERF-2007-01} Here we see a cut-away side view of the ATLAS
detector with the major components labeled.  Note that within each of these
labeled components there may exist multiple different detector technologies.
For scale two people in red are shown standing between the disk muon chambers on the
left side of the figure. }
    \label{fig:atlas_cutaway}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}

Originally proposed in 1994 the ATLAS experiment was completed in 2008. On
July 4th, 2012 in a joint announcment the ATLAS and CMS experiments announced
the discovery of the long predicted Higgs Boson.  The collaboration now boasts
over 3000 physicists from 175 instituations spread accross 38 countries and
continues to probe the limits of the Standard Model in pursuit of answers to
some of Humanities deepest questions.

Located approximately 100 meters underground in a vast excavated chamber, the
ATLAS detector rests its 7000 metric tonnes on a bed of concrete reinforced
steel.  Out of it flows the signals of over 100 million electronic channels
through a zip tied mass of greater than 3000 kilometers of cabling.  At its very
center is one of the four interaction points of the LHC, specifically Point 1,
where the two counter circulating proton beams are skillfully shaped and then
collided by a series of magnets.  The energetic particles resultant from this
collision then fly out in all directions into the bulk of the ATLAS detector.

The first sub-system they meet is the Inner Detector (ID) and its many layers of
strip and pixel silcon detectors along with a transition radiation gaseous wire
detector, all bathed in the 2T mangnetic field of the surronding superconducting
solenoidal magnet.  This system exploits the ionization of charged particles to
track their curved trajectory through the magnetic field.  This curvature gives
us charge information, a momentum measurement, and precision 3D verticies
crucial to the identification of the secondary verticies of a b-hadron decay. 

Outside of the solenoid the particles are faced with first the Electromagnetic
and then the Hadronic sampling calorimeters. Here, layers of scintillator and
high radiation length materials are implemented to measure the energy of
electrons, photons, and hadrons. As the goal is to completely absorb the energy
of all outgoing particles the calorimeter has a nearly $4\pi$ solid angle
coverage.

Finally we have the muon system surrounding the calorimeter and equipped with
its own torroidal magnet system.  Here the charged muon bends in the magnetic
field while leaving a trail of ionization in the muon spectrometer before
exiting the detector completely.  Neutrinos are the only other standard model
particle that leave the detector, however they do so without detection.  A
depiction of the various particle interactions with the different detector
sub-systems can be seen in \cref{fig:detector_interactions}

In the following sections I will explain our choosen coordinate system and give 
a more detailed reveiw of these 3 detector sub-systems.

\begin{figure}[!htbp]
  \begin{center}
    \includegraphics[width=0.9\linewidth]{figures/atlas/detector_interactions}
    \caption{This slice of the ATLAS detector depicts how different particles
interact with each component of the detector it crosses.  A dashed line
indicates no interaction while a solid line indicates interaction. Electrons
(yellow/green) and charged hadrons (red) interact with the tracker and curve in
the solenoid's magnetic field.  Electrons and photons (yellow/green) are
absorbed by the Electromagnetic calorimeter.  All hadrons (red/yellow) are
absorbed by the Hadronic calorimeter. The muons (orange) curve in both the
solenoid and torroid magnetic fields before exiting the detector. Finally, the
neutrinos (white) pass through the entire detector without interacting.  }
    \label{fig:detector_interactions}
  \end{center}
\end{figure}

\input{chapters/atlas/coordinates.tex} 
\input{chapters/atlas/tracking.tex} 
\input{chapters/atlas/calorimetry.tex}
\input{chapters/atlas/muons.tex}
