\section{Higgs Boson Signal Monte Carlo Samples} \label{sec:data:signal_mc}

In order to simulate Higgs boson events, the three leading production
mechanisms at the LHC were considered, shown in \Cref{fig:higgs_production}:
gluon-gluon fusion, vector boson fusion and Higgsstrahlung.  These three
production modes represent approximately 88\%, 7\% and 4\% of the total Higgs
signal, respectively, before analysis cuts are applied.  In all samples the
simulated Higgs boson is forced to decay to the $b\bar{b}$ final state.

The ggF $H$ + jet events were generated using the HJ+MiNLO~\cite{Hamilton2015}
prescription, assuming a finite top quark mass, with the \textsc{Powheg-Box} 2
generator~\cite{Campbell2012} and the NNPDF30 NNLO parton distribution
functions~\cite{Hamilton:2012rf}.  After generation the events were showered
using \textsc{Pythia} 8.212~\cite{Sjostrand:2014zea} with the AZNLO tune and
the CTEQ6L1 parton distribution functions~\cite{Pumplin:2002vw}. Any
$b$-hadrons produced during this process were decayed using
\textsc{EvtGen}~\cite{LANGE2001152}.

The VBF $H$ + jet events were also generated using the \textsc{Powheg-Box}
generator~\cite{Nason:2009ai} with the NNPDF30 NLO parton distribution
functions~\cite{Hamilton:2012rf}. Again the showering was performed with
\textsc{Pythia} 8.212~\cite{Sjostrand:2014zea} using the AZNLO tune and the
CTEQ6L1 parton distribution functions~\cite{Pumplin:2002vw}.  The decay of
$b$-hadrons was again performed using \textsc{EvtGen}~\cite{LANGE2001152}.

Higgsstrahlung events were generated using the \textsc{Pythia} 8.212
generator~\cite{Sjostrand:2014zea}, the AZNLO tune and the CTEQ6L1 parton
distribution functions~\cite{Pumplin:2002vw}.  Again the decay of $b$-hadrons
is handled by \textsc{EvtGen}~\cite{LANGE2001152}. Unfortunately the
\textsc{Pythia} $ZH$ process does not include the $gg \rightarrow ZH$
contribution.  To account for this the cross section is corrected to the LHC
Higgs cross section working group's (LHCHXSWG) recommended
$\sigma_{\text{NLO+NLL}}^{\text{ggZH}}$ with NLO + Next to Leading Log (NLL)
accuracy \cite{MelladoGarcia:2150771}.
