\chapter{The Large Hadron Collider} \label{chap:lhc}

Lying an average of 100 meters under the Swiss / French border, the 26.7
kilometer circumference Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is the world's largest piece
of scientific apparatus built to date \cite{Br√ºning:782076, Evans:2008zzb}.
This apparatus is used to produce proton and heavy ion collisions for
observation by the four major experiments at the LHC: ATLAS, CMS, LHCb, and
ALICE.  The system was designed for a maximum center-of-mass energy of
$\sqrt{s} = 14$ TeV and a peak instantaneous luminosity of $L = 10^{34} $cm$^{-2} $s$^{-1}$.  

The first LHC workshop was held in 1984 in Lausanne at the European
Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) \cite{LlewellynSmith:2014lmn}.  The
nearly 30-year-old case for a machine that would push towards the discovery of
the elusive Higgs Boson was presented using the existing CERN accelerator
facilities and the Large Electron Positron (LEP) Collider tunnel. The proposal
became reality on September 10, 2008 when the first proton beams were
circulated, only to have calamity strike 9 days later in the form of a
catastrophic electrical fault \cite{EDMS:973073}. The repairs and improvements
lasted until November 2009 when the LHC restarted.  Since then, this modern
marvel has worked wonderfully and, as hoped, lead to the discovery of the Higgs
Boson by the ATLAS and CMS collaborations, announced on July 4th, 2012
\cite{Aad:2012tfa, Chatrchyan:2012xdj, higgs_announcement}.

The following  chapter provides a brief introduction to the world's most
powerful accelerator starting with the little red bottle of hydrogen, and
ending with the interaction point where protons collide at the highest energies
ever produced by humans.

\input{chapters/lhc/injection.tex}
\input{chapters/lhc/layout.tex}
\input{chapters/lhc/performance.tex}
\input{chapters/lhc/pileup.tex}
